---
layout: post
excerpt: Closures
permalink: /Closures
published: true
---
What is lexical scoping and closure?

Lexical scoping refers to scoping around a context. But within the context of closures, lexical scoping defines how variable names are resolved. Inner functions contains access to the parent function even if the parent function has returned. To be more exact, the inner function would be described as having a closure ofer the parent function's variables.

Here is a precise example of a closure aligned to its definition. 
```golang
func outer() func() {
	i := 1
	return func() {
		fmt.Println(i)
	}
}

func main() {
	inner := outer()
	inner()
}
```
//output 1


A more practical example of closure is below. This one is taken from "A Tour of Go":
```golang
func adder() func(int) int {
	sum := 0
	return func(x int) int {
		sum += x
		return sum
	}
}

func main() {
	pos, neg := adder(), adder()
	for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
		fmt.Println(
			pos(i),
			neg(-2*i),
		)
	}
}
```
// 0 0
// 1 -2
// 3 -6
// 6 -12
// 10 -20
// 15 -30
// 21 -42
// 28 -56
// 36 -72
// 45 -90

The adder function returns an anonymous function that is a closure. Each closure has its own sum variable.

Also one thing to notice is that every closure has its own local scope, outer function scope and global scope(usually using the keyword "this")

Closures are generally more seen in non object oriented programming language like javascript where functions are more like first class citizens. A practical example of using a closure could be a closure returned by a onclick function. Let's say we want to keep track of how many times this button was clicked but at the same time have code reusability to changing the path to direct the user to.

Bam. We can keep track of the count in the outer scope of the closer while writing our main logic inside the closure.











```typescript
function generateReducer<T>(
  newObj: T
): (data: T, prev: Record<string, any>) => any {

    return (data: T, prev: Record<string, any> => {
      const items = prev;
      const itemIndex = items.findIndex(item => item.id === data.id);
      const newItem = {
        ...items[itemIndex],
        ...data,
      }
      items[itemIndex] = newItem;
      return items
    }

}

```

